Now.
Again, if you asked 100 different programmers to set up a solution for this, you'd probably get 100
different answers of how to do it.
But let me show you what I would do.
So we need to tackle the solution, both from an admin editor, client JavaScript angle and from the
PHP render callback angle.
However, regardless of which problem we solve first, I don't know of a way from client side JavaScript
in the admin editor to access the theme folder you are.
So for example, in the admin screen, if you start to edit your index template in this JavaScript environment,
I'm not sure of an easy, elegant way to have WordPress give us the currently installed an active theme.
You are right.
So this is what I'm going to do in our functions.
Dot AP file.
Down at the bottom when we're creating our new instance of x block for slide.
Well let's just give it a third argument.
So comma, square brackets.
And remember we set this up so that you give it a happy array of data and then it will be made available
from JavaScript.
So let's make up a property name.
Let's call it quotes.
I'll make up a name maybe of.
How about.
Theme image path.
So after the quote arrow symbol and then it would just be get theme file.
You are try parentheses to call that give it a string, a text, just slash.
Images slash.
Let's give that a save.
But the idea now is that in our client side JavaScript for the editor screen, we can access this value
and WordPress is giving us the HTTP.
You are ie towards our theme folder and then the slash images folder.
So this will work with any configuration of WordPress.
It doesn't matter if WordPress is installed at the root of the domain.
It doesn't matter if someone has changed the name of the WP content folder, so on and so forth.
Now before we directly go use this little bit of data, let's acknowledge that really all we need to
do now is add on to the end of this.
So after the slash right, right about here, this would be, you know, bus, dot jpeg or apples dot
jpeg or bread dot jpeg.
So what I would do is back in our index dot HTML template, let's go find the slide instances.
So the first slide for me is around line number 24.
Here's what I would do.
So this first slide, this is what I want to be, the bus dot jpeg, right?
I'm just going to completely get rid of the image ID and definitely get rid of the image URL properties.
So now it's just an empty pair of curly brackets and let's make up an attribute name.
So we could call it anything, but let's call it maybe theme image, colon.
Give it a string of text for the value and just say bus dot, jpeg.
Right?
Because all we need to do to finish the path is just we're already in this images folder, so just use
this file.
Let's do the same thing for the other three as well.
So about on line number 38, this would be the apples dot jpeg.
So on this slide tag, just get rid of the image ID and the image URL.
In the curly brackets, it would just be quotes, theme, image, colon, quotes, apples, dot jpeg.
And then finally, let's do the same thing for this slide.
So get rid of the image, id get rid of the image URL in the empty object it would be quotes theme image
colon quotes.
Value is bread jpeg.
Cool.
Let's give that a save.
And now all we need to do is edit the client.
Add Main Gutenberg block JavaScript to combine the theme images folder with that little file name value
we just set up.
So I think this will come full circle right now if you just jump into our blocks folder and opened up
slide dot James with me up at the very top of this file, let's set up a new attribute.
So in the attributes object, let's add a brand new attribute.
We could name it anything, but we've already chosen a name back in our template, right?
We made up a name of theme image.
So let's use that here.
Theme, image, colon, curly brackets.
Be sure to add that line with a comma in the curly brackets.
We just need to say type string.
Cool.
Now let's just write a little bit of code so that on the first render or the first initial page load,
we check to see if this value is empty or not, if it exists, if it's not empty, right?
If you've passed in a value from your template file, then we can actually use it and then we can set
things up so that when the user actually uploads their own custom image, then we can just delete or
empty or hollow out this value.
Let me show you what I have in mind.
So in the edit component, we're already using use effect.
Let's set up another user effect because this one's watching for changes to image ID.
I want a new use effect that's only going to run on the first initial page load.
So just right above that use effect, we can just set up another use effect.
You give it to values for the B value, just give it an empty array.
Meaning we're not watching for any value in particular for changes.
This means only run this function on the initial load.
So then instead of the a placeholder, we'd give it a function.
In this function I would just write an if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets, the condition would be props not attributes dot theme image.
So if that evaluates to true if it's not empty, then let's just set the image URL to sort of combine
the values in a way that makes sense.
So we'd say props, not set attributes.
You give that an object we would want to set image URL colon to now B and we would construct our own
string.
So let's use back text.
And now we'd essentially just combine the value that we set up in functions dot API's.
Remember a few moments ago we set this up.
So this is going to be the path that points towards our theme slash images slash so we can access that
by just saying slide dot, theme, image path.
So back in our JavaScript, in the back sticks, it would be dollar sign, curly brackets, and then
we'd say Slide 14, image path and then still in the back ticks.
But you could just set up a new expression.
So dollar sign, curly brackets, we're just sort of squishing two dynamic values together into one
overall string.
But then this would just be props dot attributes, dot theme image.
So all together this will be the theme images folder and then bus dot jpeg or Apple's dot jpeg.
Cool.
Now, before we save this file, let's address what should happen once the user actually does.
Or I should say if they actually upload and replace that with their own custom uploaded image.
So to take care of that in the original use effect that we already set up in a previous lesson, we're
watching for changes to image ID.
So if that changes, that means the user uploaded their own file and we are already setting, you know,
props, dot set attributes and setting the image URL.
So in this object I would just empty out theme image, right?
In other words, once the user uploads their own image, we no longer want to pay attention to or acknowledge
this hardcoded, you know, theme image, bread, dot jpeg.
So what I would do in this props dot said attributes maybe right before image URL we can just say also
change theme image colon to just be an empty string of text comma.
Let's give this a save and test it out.
So back in the full site editor screen.
I'll refresh the page.
Oops.
I just remembered we need to have our NPM run start task up and running in the command line.
Cool.
So with that, running with refresh.
If we scroll down to the slideshow, perfect.
There are the three images that we actually want.
So they're working.
Now if the user tries to customize that.
So if I click on this first one.
In the right hand side bar click choose image.
If I choose this building, click select cool that works.
And if I click Save and now refresh just to prove that it's saving into the database and still actually
being used instead of the hard coded, you know, busty jpeg.
Cool it is.
So now we just need to adjust our render callback function a tiny bit so that the actual public output
also works, right?
Because at the moment, if we refresh the actual front end of our Web site, well, yes, we do indeed
see that image I just uploaded.
However, what about when someone first enables this theme?
So let me explain what I mean.
If the user reverts back to the initial template that the theme ships with.
So let me do that really quick.
If I go into templates, might have to refresh, but on index just revert or clear any user customizations.
Okay.
So we refresh notice that first slide on the actual render callback, it's using the fallback image
instead of bus dot jpeg.
So to fix this, all we need to do is in the our blocks folder, jump in to slide, dot up and up at
the very top in this copy block let's just write one more if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets for the condition, I would just say if dollar sign attributes, square
brackets look for theme image.
So if that exists, if it's not empty, then let's just set image URL to actually use that hardcoded
value, you know, of Apple's dot jpeg or bus that jpeg.
Otherwise, if that's not true, this just will be ignored completely.
So in this if statement for the curly brackets, I would just say dollar sign attributes look in the
array for image URL set that to equal and then just get the file you are I semicolon give that a value
of quotes slash, images slash and then after the quotes I would concatenate on.
So a period dollar sign attributes look inside the array for theme image.
Let's give that a save.
And now with our theme using its total default values that shipped from the, you know, the actual
text file on the hard drive.
If we refresh perfect it knows to use that bus dot jpeg value and that's true for all three slides,
but the moment a user actually customizes that so we can go back into index and if I change the bread
slide to instead be this cat click save, we can go check the PHP version.
Go to the third slide.
Perfect.
So big picture, what does this mean?
It means that our indexed on each html template file is good to go.
You could ship out this theme.
You could distribute this theme and this code will make sense for any WordPress installation.
So when the user first installs in enables your theme, it will work and makes sense.
But it's also a great home base that they can always revert back to that's going to bring this lesson
to a close.
And even though that was a lot of work just for the one homepage template, trust me, all of the other
templates, you know, for individual blog post, individual page archives, so on and so forth, those
don't require any sort of custom accommodations like we set up in this video.
So those are all going to go very quickly.
I think we can finish them in just a video or two.
In other words, we're very close to finishing this new block theme together.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.